Cowrie Honeypot Overview

Purpose:
Cowrie is a medium-interaction SSH and Telent honeypot that is designed to copy a shell environment.
With the intent to capture detailed interaction logs from attackers. Main goal is to record the actions attackers and 
commands that they're using. Helps us denfender with providing a insight into their trchniques and objectives when attacking.

How Cowrie Works

Emulation:
SSH and Telnet: Cowire emulates SSH and Telnet services, which attract attacker who use techniques likw brute-force
attacks to gain unauthorized access into a network.

Fale Filesystem: Cowrie creates a fake filesystem, that give attackers a realistic environment to interact with. 
We get to watch and see what they do and travel accross the netowrk. The fake filesystem can be customized to copy different type of systems as well.

Interaction:
Once tha attacker has gained access, Cowrie logs all commands and captures output as well.
For example this would include file downloads, command history, and privilege escalation attempts.

What Cowrie Captures:
Session Details: Information about the connection like IP address, timestamps, and session duration
Commands: Commands being entered by attackers and output is logged
File Transfers: Any file download or uploaded are captured as well
Keystrokes: Logging of keystrokes, gives insight on TTP's of attackers 

Why Cowrie is Important:
Cowrie is imporant to us denfenders, because of the vauable infomration is guves us of attacker technquies, tatciles, and produrces.
Looking into logs of what attackers are doing can help us detect new emerging thearts and allowing us denfenders trying to stay ahead of this game of cat and mouse.

On my Cowrie Dashboards running for about a week I had 12,216 attacks with 2,349 unique source ips.
The top countires these attacks where coming from was China, United States, South Korea, and Australia.

Ports being attacked:
Port 22 SSH | Attacks: 1,389 
Port 22 is dedicated to Securce shell, SSH is used to connect to a remote device and issues commands.
SSH is very helpful because it lets you remotely access and control devices from anywhere like if you were in front of the computer yourself.
For these reasons attackers try to SSH device to get a foot hold. Some steps you can do to prevent successful attacks are diable the root login, strong passwords, and enable key-based authentication.
You can also disable the defualt port of 22 and use another port in the range of 1024-65535.

Port 23 Telnet | Attacks: 2,167
Now Telnet also allows you to connect to devices remotely, but due to security issues SSH is prefered.
Telnet also lets you run commands once you're conntected to another device like computer, switches and routers for example.
Telnet is mostly used for legacy systems and on isloated networks to prevent attacks.
Telnet does not perform any encryption, therefor leeting attackers view credentials and other imporant information when going through telent.
For these reasons you should stay away from using telent over the internet. For these reasons you should block port 23 and use SSH instead.

Port 25 SMTP | Attacks 16 
SMTP(Simlpe Mail Transfer Protocol) is used for sending and receiving messages between mail servers.
Port 25 is the defualt port, but port 587 is used instead due to better security features.
Some of the vulnerabilites that are asscoitaed with port 25 is spam emails, email spoofing, and port 25 can also be used for DDos attacks.

Attemped Usernames:
root
admin
user
test
ubnt
unknow

Attempted Passwords:
123456
password
admin
12345678
123
qwerty1

Comman Line Inputs:
shell
system
cat /bin/echo
dd bs=52 count=1 if=.s || cat .s|| while read i; do

Mostly SSH commands and seems like attackers were intersted in readinga file .s, and some ping commands.
